docs: GTP Extension Header Feature Documentation (#12883)
magma/magma: docs/readmes/lte/GTPU_Extension_Header.md

---
id: GTPU_Extension_Header
title: GTPU Extension
hide_title: true
---
# GTP Extensions

## Overview

Magma Gateway uses the Linux networking stack and OVS to program the packet pipeline for the faster processing of data packets. The GTP-U protocol entity provides packet transmission and reception services to user plane entities in the RNC, eNodeB, SGW, PGW and TWAN. The GTP-U protocol entity in AGW is responsible for sending and receiving the traffic from multiple GTP-U tunnel endpoints.

The GTP-U header is a variable length header whose minimum length is 8 bytes. There are three flags to indicate the presence of additional optional fields: the PN flag, the S flag and the E flag.

- N-PDU number flag (PN): a 1-bit value indicating whether there is an N-PDU number optional field.
- Sequence number flag (S): a 1-bit value indicating whether there is a Sequence Number optional field.

> - Extension header flag (E): a 1-bit value indicating whether there is an extension header optional field. The Extension Header bit being set to "1" indicate  s the presence of the "Next Extension Header field".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extension header flag (E): a 1-bit value indicating whether there is an extension header optional field. The Extension Header bit being set to "1" indicates the presence of the "Next Extension Header field".

```

Downlink add flow:

```sudo ovs-ofctl add-flow gtp_br0 "table=0, priority=65503,ip,in_port=4294967294,nw_dst=192.168.128.11 actions=set_field:0x2710->tun_id,set_field:192.168.60.16->tun_dst,set_field:0x8000->reg8,set_field:0x6->qfi,set_field:oam->tun_flags,set_field:0x181c9->metadata,resubmit(,1)"```

Uplink del flow:

```sudo ovs-ofctl del-flows gtp_br0 "table=0, tun_id=0x7,qfi=6,in_port=gtp0"```

Downlink del flow:

```sudo ovs-ofctl del-flows gtp_br0 "table=0, ip,in_port=4294967294,nw_dst=192.168.128.11"```

## Common Issues and Troubleshooting

1. GTP kernel module is included as part of OVS module. So no need to insert gtp.ko.

2. To set up a development environment, run the following command on the magma-dev VM.
   ```sudo bash ~/magma/third_party/gtp_ovs/ovs-gtp-patches/2.15/dev.sh setup```

3. To run OVS GTP tests on OVS kernel datapath:
   ```sudo bash ~/magma/third_party/gtp_ovs/ovs-gtp-patches/2.15/dev.sh build_test```

4. To debug the traffic issues in fastpath, enable the OVS debug logging and check the logs using ```sudo dmesg```.

5. Stop and start the `OVS Service` using below commands:

   ```sudo /usr/share/openvswitch/scripts/ovs-ctl stop```

>    ```sudo /usr/share/openvswitch/scripts/ovs-ctl start```

Reviewer: Please put these two commands in one block with triple backticks.

---
id: GTPU_Ext_Header
title: GTP Extensions
hide_title: true
---
# GTP Extensions

## Overview

> Magma Gateway uses linux networking stack and OVS to program packet pipeline on the gateway. The GTP-U protocol entity provides packet transmission and reception services to user plane entities in the RNC, eNodeB, SGW, PGW and TWAN. The GTP-U protocol entity receives traffic from a number of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Magma Gateway uses the Linux networking stack and OVS to program the packet pipeline on the gateway. The GTP-U protocol entity provides packet transmission and reception services to user plane entities in the RNC, eNodeB, SGW, PGW and TWAN. The GTP-U protocol entity receives traffic from a number of

```

Author: Fixed.

GTP-U tunnel endpoints and transmits traffic to a number of GTP-U tunnel endpoints.

The GTP-U header is a variable length header whose minimum length is 8 bytes. There are three flags that are used to signal the presence of additional optional fields: the PN flag, the S flag and the E flag. The PN flag is used to signal the presence of N-PDU Numbers. The S flag is used to signal the presence of the GTP Sequence Number field. The E flag is used to signal the presence of the Extension Header field.

> Extension Header flag (E): This flag indicates the presence of the Next Extension Header field. When it is set to '0', the Next Extension Header field either is not present. When it is set to '1', the Next Extension Header field is present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extension Header flag (E): This flag indicates the presence of the Next Extension Header field. When it is set to '0', the Next Extension Header field is not present. When it is set to '1', the Next Extension Header field is present.

```

Author: Fixed.

## GTP-U Extension Header

> The Extension Header Length field specifies the length of the particular Extension header in 4 octets units. The Next Extension Header Type field specifies the type of any Extension Header that may follow a particular Extension Header. If no such Header follows, then the value of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Extension Header Length field specifies the length of the particular Extension header in 4 octet units. The Next Extension Header Type field specifies the type of any Extension Header that may follow a particular Extension Header. If no such Header follows, then the value of the

```

Author: Fixed.

Next Extension Header Type shall be 0.

	 0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
     | Ext-Hdr Length|                                               |
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                                               |
     |                  Extension Header Content                     |
     .                                                               .
     .                                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
     |                                               |  Next-Ext-Hdr |
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

> In 5G SA, each flow is forwarded based on the appropriate QoS rules. QoS rules are configured by SMF as QoS profiles to UP components and these components perform QoS controls to PDUs based on rules. In downlink, a pipelineD pushes QFI into an extension header, and transmits the PDU to RAN.  In uplink, each UE obtains the QoS rule from SMF, and transmit PDUs with QFI containing the QoS rules to the RAN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 5G SA, each flow is forwarded based on the appropriate QoS rules. QoS rules are configured by SMF as QoS profiles to UP components and these components perform QoS controls to PDUs based on rules. In downlink, a pipelineD pushes QFI into an extension header, and transmits the PDU to RAN.  In uplink, each UE obtains the QoS rule from SMF, and transmits PDUs with QFI containing the QoS rules to the RAN.

```

Author: Fixed.

Spare: The spare field is set to "0" by the sender and should not be interpreted by the receiver.
QoS Flow Identifier: When this IE is present, this parameter indicates the QoS Flow Identifier of the QoS flow to which the transferred packet belongs.
Padding: The padding is included at the end of the frame.

### Transfer of PDU Session Information for Downlink Data Traffic

The Transfer of PDU Session Information for downlink data packets involves transfer of control information elements related to the PDU Session from Pipelined to NG-RAN.

The DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame includes a QoS Flow Identifier (QFI) field associated with the transferred packet. The NG-RAN uses the received QFI to determine the QoS flow and QoS profile which are associated with the received packet.

The DL PDU session information frame includes the Reflective QoS Indicator (RQI) field to indicate whether the user plane reflective QoS is to be activated or not. This is only applicable if reflective QoS is activated.

## High Level Design

> Following functionality supported for QFI set in GTP Extension header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following functionality is supported for QFI set in GTP Extension header:

```

Author: Fixed.

QFI Configuration for uplink flow (Matching criteria)
QFI Configuration for downlink flow (Action criteria)
Uplink	traffic match with uplink flow
Downlink traffic takes action with action criteria values.

### Pipelined
Pipelined will extract qos structure from uplink PDR which is coming from SMF. QFI value gets from QoS structure and sets it in uplink flow as a match criteria.
			match = MagmaMatch(tunnel_id=i_teid, qfi=<qfi_value>, in_port=gtp_portno)
Pipelined will extract qos structure from downlink PDR which is coming from SMF. QFI value gets from QoS structure and sets it in downlink flow as an action criteria.
			actions.append(parser.OFPActionSetField(qfi = <qfi_value>)

### RYU Controller
Ryu is a Python library that provides an API wrapper for programming OVS.

> There are two parts to taking care of qfi functionality support:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two parts to taking care of QFI functionality support:

```

Author: Fixed.

Nicira Extension Actions Structures (NXAction)
Nicira Extended Match Structures (OFPMatch)

### OVS Openflow
Using the OpenFlow protocol, the controller can add, update, and delete flow entries in flow tables, both reactively (in response to packets) and proactively. Each flow table in the switch contains a set of flow entries; each flow entry consists of match fields, counters, and a set of instructions to apply to matching packets.

### OVS Kernel

> For Egress flow, need to build the extension header and set QFI value. Pass it down to kernel datapath for pushing it to GTP-U packets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Egress flow, one needs to build the extension header and set the QFI value. It needs to be passed down to kernel datapath for pushing it to GTP-U packets.

```

Author: Fixed.

> For Ingress flow, Extract the QFI value from skb of GTP header and set to the tunnel key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Ingress flow, extract the QFI value from skb of GTP header and set to the tunnel key.

```

Author: Fixed.

## High Level Call Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    CPE / RAN->>MME(AMF): PDU Session Establishment Request
    MME(AMF)->>SESSIOND: SetSMFContext
    SESSIOND->>PIPELINED: SetSMFSession(GTP)

> 	PIPELINED->>RYU_CONTROLLER: Set qfi value in match and action criteria

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	PIPELINED->>RYU_CONTROLLER: Set QFI value in match and action criteria

```

Author: Fixed.

    RYU_CONTROLLER->>OPENFLOW: NXM_NX_QFI

>     OPENFLOW->>OVS_DATAPATH: MFF_QFI and set tunnel qfi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    OPENFLOW->>OVS_DATAPATH: MFF_QFI and set tunnel QFI

```

Author: Fixed.

	CPE / RAN->>OVS_DATAPATH: GTP Traffic for uplink/downlink with QFI value
```

## Common Issues and Troubleshooting

1. First check GTP table entries using `sudo ovs-ofctl -O OpenFlow13 dump-flows gtp_br0 table=0`

> 2. Check GTP port `2152` is listening or not using `sudo netstat -a|grep 2152`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Check whether the GTP port `2152` is listening or not by using `sudo netstat -a|grep 2152`

```

Author: Fixed.

>    If not listening, check `OVS` status using `sudo ovs-vsctl show` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If it is not listening, check the `OVS` status using `sudo ovs-vsctl show` 

```

Author: Fixed.

> 3. `ovs-dpctl` dumps current state of kernel flow table. This table reflects active connections in the system. So it needs running traffic between UE and internet server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. `ovs-dpctl` dumps the current state of kernel flow table. This table reflects active connections in the system, so it needs running traffic between UE and internet server.

```

Author: Fixed.

> 4.  If observed the below errors in `sudo ovs-vsctl show`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  If the below error is observed by running `sudo ovs-vsctl show`

```

Author: Fixed.

```
			Port gtp0
			Interface gtp0
			type: gtp
			options: {key=flow, remote_ip=flow}
			error: "could not add network device gtp0 to ofproto (Address family not supported by protocol)"
```
Then GTP tunnel type is changed to `gtpu` in `/etc/network/interfaces.d/gtp` file.
5.  GTP kernel module is included as part of OVS module. So no need to insert gtp.ko

> 6. To setup DEV environment run following command on magma dev VM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. To setup DEV environment, run the following command on the magma-dev VM

```

Author: Fixed.

   `sudo bash ~/magma/third_party/gtp_ovs/ovs-gtp-patches/2.15/dev.sh setup`

7. To Run OVS GTP tests on OVS kernel datapath:
   `sudo bash ~/magma/third_party/gtp_ovs/ovs-gtp-patches/2.15/dev.sh build_test`

8. OVS debug logging can be dynamically enabled by `sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set dbg`

>    For specific module,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For a specific module,

```

Author: Fixed.

   `sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set netdev dbg`
   `sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set ofproto dbg`
   `sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set vswitchd dbg`
   `sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set dpif dbg`

9. Debug the traffic issues in fastpath 
   Enable the OVS debug logging
   Check the logs using `sudo dmesg`
   

> 10. Stop and Start the `OVS Service` using below commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Stop and start the `OVS Service` using below commands:

```

Author: Fixed.

     |                  Extension Header Content                     |
     .                                                               .
     .                                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
     |                                               |  Next-Ext-Hdr |
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

In 5G SA, each flow is forwarded based on the appropriate QoS rules. QoS rules are configured by SMF as QoS profiles to UP components and these components perform QoS controls to PDUs based on rules. In downlink, a pipelineD pushes QFI into an extension header, and transmits the PDU to RAN.  In uplink, each UE obtains the QoS rule from SMF, and transmits PDUs with QFI containing the QoS rules to the RAN.

### Transfer of PDU Session Information for Uplink Data Traffic

The Transfer of PDU Session Information for uplink data packets involves transfer of control information elements related to the PDU Session from NG-RAN to Pipelined.

The UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame includes a QoS Flow Identifier (QFI) field associated with the transferred packet.

The below Information Elements present in the PDU Session Information frame:

> PDU Type: The PDU Type indicates the structure of the PDU session UP frame. The field takes the value of the PDU Type it identifies: "0" for PDU Type 0. Value range: {0= DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION, 1=UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION, 2-15=reserved for future PDU type extensions}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PDU Type: The PDU Type indicates the structure of the PDU session UP frame. The field takes the value of the PDU Type it identifies: "0" for PDU Type 0. Value range: {0= DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION, 1=UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION, 2-15=reserved for future PDU type extensions}.

```

Author: Fixed it.

Spare: The spare field is set to "0" by the sender and should not be interpreted by the receiver.
QoS Flow Identifier: When this IE is present, this parameter indicates the QoS Flow Identifier of the QoS flow to which the transferred packet belongs.
Padding: The padding is included at the end of the frame.

### Transfer of PDU Session Information for Downlink Data Traffic

> The Transfer of PDU Session Information for downlink data packets involves transfer of control information elements related to the PDU Session from Pipelined to NG-RAN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transfer of PDU Session Information for downlink data packets involves transfer of control information elements related to the PDU Session from Pipelined to NG-RAN.

```

Author: Fixed it.

The DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame includes a QoS Flow Identifier (QFI) field associated with the transferred packet. The NG-RAN uses the received QFI to determine the QoS flow and QoS profile which are associated with the received packet.

The DL PDU session information frame includes the Reflective QoS Indicator (RQI) field to indicate whether the user plane reflective QoS is to be activated or not. This is only applicable if reflective QoS is activated.

## High Level Design

The following functionality is supported for QFI set in GTP Extension header:

> QFI Configuration for uplink flow (Matching criteria)

Reviewer: This should be made into a list by e.g. adding dashes to the start of each line, otherwise they're all just added together. Right now, it looks like "The following functionality is supported for QFI set in GTP Extension header: QFI Configuration for uplink flow (Matching criteria) QFI Configuration for downlink flow (Action criteria) Uplink traffic match with uplink flow Downlink traffic takes action with action criteria values."

Author: Fixed it.

QFI Configuration for downlink flow (Action criteria)
Uplink traffic match with uplink flow
Downlink traffic takes action with action criteria values.

### Pipelined

> Pipelined will extract qos structure from uplink PDR which is coming from SMF. QFI value gets from QoS structure and sets it in uplink flow as a match criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipelined will extract QoS structure from uplink PDR which is coming from SMF. QFI value gets from QoS structure and sets it in uplink flow as a match criteria.

```

Author: Fixed it.

>                        match = MagmaMatch(tunnel_id=i_teid, qfi=<qfi_value>, in_port=gtp_portno)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                       `match = MagmaMatch(tunnel_id=i_teid, qfi=<qfi_value>, in_port=gtp_portno)`

```

Author: Fixed it.

> Pipelined will extract qos structure from downlink PDR which is coming from SMF. QFI value gets from QoS structure and sets it in downlink flow as an action criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipelined will extract QoS structure from downlink PDR which is coming from SMF. QFI value gets from QoS structure and sets it in downlink flow as an action criteria.

```

Author: Fixed it.

> Pipelined will extract qos structure from downlink PDR which is coming from SMF. QFI value gets from QoS structure and sets it in downlink flow as an action criteria.

Reviewer: Perhaps there should be a line break here otherwise both parts get added together into one paragraph.

Author: Fixed it.

>                        actions.append(parser.OFPActionSetField(qfi = <qfi_value>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                       `actions.append(parser.OFPActionSetField(qfi = <qfi_value>)`

```

Author: Fixed it.

> 

Reviewer 2: Lets also add `ovs-ofctl` parameters to show how to program the QFI directly using OVS cmdline tool.

Author: Yes, added OVS cmdline

### RYU Controller

Ryu is a Python library that provides an API wrapper for programming OVS.

There are two parts to taking care of QFI functionality support:

> Nicira Extension Actions Structures (NXAction)

Reviewer: As above, this should be made into a list with e.g. dashes.

Author: Fixed it.

Nicira Extended Match Structures (OFPMatch)

### OVS Openflow

Using the OpenFlow protocol, the controller can add, update, and delete flow entries in flow tables, both reactively (in response to packets) and proactively. Each flow table in the switch contains a set of flow entries; each flow entry consists of match fields, counters, and a set of instructions to apply to matching packets.

### OVS Kernel

> For Egress flow, one needs to build the extension header and set the QFI value. It needs to be Passed down to kernel datapath for pushing it to GTP-U packets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Egress flow, one needs to build the extension header and set the QFI value. It needs to be passed down to kernel datapath for pushing it to GTP-U packets.

```

Author: fixed it

For Ingress flow, extract the QFI value from skb of GTP header and set to the tunnel key.

## High Level Call Flow

Call flow for QFI set in OVS.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    CPE->>MME(AMF): PDU Session Establishment Request
    MME(AMF)->>SESSIOND: SetSMFContext
    SESSIOND->>PIPELINED: SetSMFSession(GTP)
    PIPELINED->>RYU_CONTROLLER: Set QFI value in match and action criteria
    RYU_CONTROLLER->>OPENFLOW: NXM_NX_QFI
    OPENFLOW->>OVS_DATAPATH: MFF_QFI and set tunnel QFI
    CPE->>OVS_DATAPATH: GTP Traffic for uplink/downlink with QFI value
```

## Common Issues and Troubleshooting

> 

Reviewer 2: These are generic debugging steps can you add it to datapath debugging doc?
https://docs.magmacore.org/docs/howtos/troubleshooting/datapath_connectivity

Author: Yes, few generic debugging steps are moved to datapath_connectivity.md

1. First check GTP table entries using `sudo ovs-ofctl -O OpenFlow13 dump-flows gtp_br0 table=0`

> 2. Check whether GTP port `2152` is listening or not by using `sudo netstat -a|grep 2152`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Check whether GTP port `2152` is listening or not by using `sudo netstat -a|grep 2152`.

```

Author: Fixed it.

   If it is not listening, check the `OVS` status using `sudo ovs-vsctl show`

> 3. `ovs-dpctl` dumps the current state of kernel flow table. This table reflects active connections in the system, so it needs running traffic between UE andinternet server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. `ovs-dpctl` dumps the current state of the kernel flow table. This table reflects active connections in the system, so it needs running traffic between the UE and the internet server.

```

Author: Fixed it.

4. If the below error is observed by running `sudo ovs-vsctl show`

>    Port gtp0

Reviewer: Please put this in a code block otherwise it looks like this:

Port gtp0 Interface gtp0 type: gtp options: {key=flow, remote_ip=flow} error: "could not add network device gtp0 to ofproto (Address family not supported by protocol)"

Author: Fixed it.

   Interface gtp0
   type: gtp
   options: {key=flow, remote_ip=flow}
   error: "could not add network device gtp0 to ofproto (Address family not supported by protocol)"

>    Then GTP tunnel type is changed to `gtpu` in `/etc/network/interfaces.d/gtp` file.

Reviewer: I don't quite understand this line, i.e. the one that starts "Then GTP tunnel...". Is it an instruction?

Author: Fixed it.

5. GTP kernel module is included as part of OVS module. So no need to insert gtp.ko

> 6. To setup DEV environment, run the following command on the magma-dev VM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. To set up DEV environment, run the following command on the magma-dev VM

```

Reviewer: By "DEV environment", do you mean a development environment? If so, I would prefer it to say "To set up a development environment, run..."

Author: Fixed it.

   `sudo bash ~/magma/third_party/gtp_ovs/ovs-gtp-patches/2.15/dev.sh setup`

> 7. To Run OVS GTP tests on OVS kernel datapath:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. To run OVS GTP tests on OVS kernel datapath:

```

Author: Fixed it.

   `sudo bash ~/magma/third_party/gtp_ovs/ovs-gtp-patches/2.15/dev.sh build_test`

> 8. OVS debug logging can be dynamically enabled by `sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set dbg`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. OVS debug logging can be dynamically enabled by `sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set dbg`.

```

Author: Fixed it.

   For a specific module,

>    `sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set netdev dbg`

Reviewer: Perhaps this should go in one big code block using triple `s instead of single `s. Currently al lines are displayed in one line like this: "sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set netdev dbg sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set ofproto dbg sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set vswitchd dbg sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set dpif dbg"

Author: Fixed it.

   `sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set ofproto dbg`
   `sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set vswitchd dbg`
   `sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set dpif dbg`

> 9. Debug the traffic issues in fastpath

Reviewer: Currently this is rendered like so: "Debug the traffic issues in fastpath Enable the OVS debug logging Check the logs using sudo dmesg". Perhaps it could be rewritten as: "To debug the traffic issues in fastpath, enable the OVS debug logging and check the logs using `sudo dmesg`".

Author: Fixed it.

   Enable the OVS debug logging
   Check the logs using `sudo dmesg`

10. Stop and start the `OVS Service` using below commands:

>     `sudo /usr/share/openvswitch/scripts/ovs-ctl stop`

Reviewer: As above, please consider putting this in one code block.

Author: Fixed it.

---
id: GTPU_Ext_Header
title: GTP Extensions
hide_title: true
---
# GTP Extensions

## Overview

> Magma Gateway uses the Linux networking stack and OVS to program the packet pipeline on the gateway. The GTP-U protocol entity provides packet transmission and reception services to user plane entities in the RNC, eNodeB, SGW, PGW and TWAN. The GTP-U protocol entity receives traffic from a number of

Reviewer 2: We need to mention that this is patched OVS that adds support for kernel based GTP tunnel implementation.

Author: Yes,Added

Next Extension Header Type shall be 0.

	 0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
     | Ext-Hdr Length|                                               |
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                                               |
     |                  Extension Header Content                     |
     .                                                               .
     .                                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
     |                                               |  Next-Ext-Hdr |
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

In 5G SA, each flow is forwarded based on the appropriate QoS rules. QoS rules are configured by SMF as QoS profiles to UP components and these components perform QoS controls to PDUs based on rules. In downlink, a pipelineD pushes QFI into an extension header, and transmits the PDU to RAN.  In uplink, each UE obtains the QoS rule from SMF, and transmits PDUs with QFI containing the QoS rules to the RAN.

> 

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to add 3GPP doc ref.

Author: Added.

### Transfer of PDU Session Information for Uplink Data Traffic

The Transfer of PDU Session Information for uplink data packets involves transfer of control information elements related to the PDU Session from NG-RAN to Pipelined.

The UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame includes a QoS Flow Identifier (QFI) field associated with the transferred packet.

The below Information Elements present in the PDU Session Information frame:

PDU Type: The PDU Type indicates the structure of the PDU session UP frame. The field takes the value of the PDU Type it identifies: "0" for PDU Type 0. Value range: {0= DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION, 1=UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION, 2-15=reserved for future PDU type extensions}.
Spare: The spare field is set to "0" by the sender and should not be interpreted by the receiver.
QoS Flow Identifier: When this IE is present, this parameter indicates the QoS Flow Identifier of the QoS flow to which the transferred packet belongs.

> Padding: The padding is included at the end of the frame.

Reviewer: Nit: Perhaps this would be nicer as a list.

## High Level Call Flow

Call flow for QFI set in OVS.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    CPE->>MME(AMF): PDU Session Establishment Request
    MME(AMF)->>SESSIOND: SetSMFContext
    SESSIOND->>PIPELINED: SetSMFSession(GTP)
    PIPELINED->>RYU_CONTROLLER: Set QFI value in match and action criteria
    RYU_CONTROLLER->>OPENFLOW: NXM_NX_QFI
    OPENFLOW->>OVS_DATAPATH: MFF_QFI and set tunnel QFI
    CPE->>OVS_DATAPATH: GTP Traffic for uplink/downlink with QFI value
```

## Common Issues and Troubleshooting

1. GTP kernel module is included as part of OVS module. So no need to insert gtp.ko.

2. To set up a development environment, run the following command on the magma-dev VM.
   ```sudo bash ~/magma/third_party/gtp_ovs/ovs-gtp-patches/2.15/dev.sh setup```

3. To run OVS GTP tests on OVS kernel datapath:
   ```sudo bash ~/magma/third_party/gtp_ovs/ovs-gtp-patches/2.15/dev.sh build_test```

4. OVS debug logging can be dynamically enabled by ```sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set dbg```.
   For a specific module,
   ```sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set netdev dbg```
   ```sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set ofproto dbg```
   ```sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set vswitchd dbg```

>    ```sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set dpif dbg```

Reviewer: Same comment as above regarding it being put in one block so it's over multiple lines.

Author: fixed it

5. To debug the traffic issues in fastpath, enable the OVS debug logging and check the logs using ```sudo dmesg```.

6. Stop and start the `OVS Service` using below commands:
    ```sudo /usr/share/openvswitch/scripts/ovs-ctl stop```

>     ```sudo /usr/share/openvswitch/scripts/ovs-ctl start```

Reviewer: Same comment as above.

> For more details, please refer the ```docs/readmes/howtos/troubleshooting/datapath_connectivity.md```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, please refer to these [detailed debugging instructions](../howtos/troubleshooting/datapath_connectivity.md).

```

Reviewer: I suggest changing this to a link.

Author: Fixed it.

    RYU_CONTROLLER->>OPENFLOW: NXM_NX_QFI
    OPENFLOW->>OVS_DATAPATH: MFF_QFI and set tunnel QFI
    CPE->>OVS_DATAPATH: GTP Traffic for uplink/downlink with QFI value
```

## Common Issues and Troubleshooting

1. GTP kernel module is included as part of OVS module. So no need to insert gtp.ko.

2. To set up a development environment, run the following command on the magma-dev VM.
   ```sudo bash ~/magma/third_party/gtp_ovs/ovs-gtp-patches/2.15/dev.sh setup```

3. To run OVS GTP tests on OVS kernel datapath:
   ```sudo bash ~/magma/third_party/gtp_ovs/ovs-gtp-patches/2.15/dev.sh build_test```

4. OVS debug logging can be dynamically enabled by ```sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set dbg```.
   For a specific module,
```sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set netdev dbg
   sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set ofproto dbg
   sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set vswitchd dbg
   sudo ovs-appctl vlog/set dpif dbg
```

5. To debug the traffic issues in fastpath, enable the OVS debug logging and check the logs using ```sudo dmesg```.

6. Stop and start the `OVS Service` using below commands:
```sudo /usr/share/openvswitch/scripts/ovs-ctl stop
   sudo /usr/share/openvswitch/scripts/ovs-ctl start
```

> For more details, please refer to these [detailed debugging instructions] 

Author: Done.
